docs/_docs/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting started
permalink: /docs/getting-started/
description: >
  How to setup the development environment.
date: 2016-08-31T09:05:34+01:00
modified: 2016-08-31T09:05:34+01:00
---

## Install dependencies

* Install Git [https://git-scm.com](https://git-scm.com)
* Install Vagrant [https://www.vagrantup.com](https://www.vagrantup.com)
* Install VirtualBox [https://www.virtualbox.org](https://www.virtualbox.org)

## Clone the project

Clone the development environment repository.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/gantsign/development-environment.git
```

## Oracle Binary Code License Agreement

To install the Oracle JDK you must accept the "Oracle Binary Code License
Agreement for the Java SE Platform Products and JavaFX"; you can do this by
specifying the following variable in the `.vagrantuser` file (either in
the project root directory or your user home directory):

```yaml
---
java_license_declaration: 'I accept the "Oracle Binary Code License Agreement for the Java SE Platform Products and JavaFX" under the terms at http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/terms/license/index.html'
```

## Vagrant Cachier Plugin

Website: [https://github.com/fgrehm/vagrant-cachier](https://github.com/fgrehm/vagrant-cachier)

Installing the development environment requires a lot of installation packages
to be downloaded; even on a fast internet connection this can take a while to
complete. As it's standard practice to rebuild the development environment
rather than manually installing software updates, it's better to cache these
downloads on the host machine to speed up rebuilds.

The Vagrant Cachier Plugin will configure various package managers on the client
virtual machine; this configuration will cache most standard installation
packages in a shared folder on the host machine (`~/.vagrant.d/cache`).

If you have sufficient free disk space to store the cached installation
packages, we recommend you install the Vagrant Cachier Plugin by running the
following command:

```bash
vagrant plugin install vagrant-cachier
```

## Run Vagrant

All that's left is to run Vagrant to provision the virtual machine.

Run the following command from the project root directory:

```bash
vagrant up
```

## Stopping the virtual machine

It's essential you use Vagrant to stop the VM rather than shutting down via the
OS or the VirtualBox controls; failure to shutdown using Vagrant may result in
file loss.

To shut down the VM using Vagrant the following command from the project root
directory:

```bash
vagrant halt
```

Commit message:

Improved Getting Started configuration advice
Provided information about Nugrant and added link for advanced configuration.

docs/_docs/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting started
permalink: /docs/getting-started/
description: >
  How to setup the development environment.
date: 2016-08-31T09:05:34+01:00
modified: 2016-08-31T09:05:34+01:00
---

{% include base_path %}

## Install dependencies

* Install Git [https://git-scm.com](https://git-scm.com)
* Install Vagrant [https://www.vagrantup.com](https://www.vagrantup.com)
* Install VirtualBox [https://www.virtualbox.org](https://www.virtualbox.org)

## Clone the project

Clone the development environment repository.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/gantsign/development-environment.git
```

## Configuration

User specific configuration is done through the
[Nugrant](https://github.com/maoueh/nugrant) plugin for Vagrant.

The Nugrant configuration file is located in the following two locations:

* Your home folder (configuration shared between projects)

    `~/.vagrantuser`

* The project folder (configuration specific to this clone of the project)

    `.vagrantuser` (you'll find a `.vagrantuser.example` file in the project
    directory)

### Oracle Binary Code License Agreement

To install the Oracle JDK you must accept the "Oracle Binary Code License
Agreement for the Java SE Platform Products and JavaFX"; you can do this by
specifying the following variable in the `.vagrantuser` file (either in
the project root directory or your user home directory):

```yaml
---
java_license_declaration: 'I accept the "Oracle Binary Code License Agreement for the Java SE Platform Products and JavaFX" under the terms at http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/terms/license/index.html'
```

### Advanced Configuration

For more configuration options, including configuring regional preferences, view
the [configuration]({{ base_path }}/docs/configuration) documentation.

## Vagrant Cachier Plugin

Website: [https://github.com/fgrehm/vagrant-cachier](https://github.com/fgrehm/vagrant-cachier)

Installing the development environment requires a lot of installation packages
to be downloaded; even on a fast internet connection this can take a while to
complete. As it's standard practice to rebuild the development environment
rather than manually installing software updates, it's better to cache these
downloads on the host machine to speed up rebuilds.

The Vagrant Cachier Plugin will configure various package managers on the client
virtual machine; this configuration will cache most standard installation
packages in a shared folder on the host machine (`~/.vagrant.d/cache`).

If you have sufficient free disk space to store the cached installation
packages, we recommend you install the Vagrant Cachier Plugin by running the
following command:

```bash
vagrant plugin install vagrant-cachier
```

## Run Vagrant

All that's left is to run Vagrant to provision the virtual machine.

Run the following command from the project root directory:

```bash
vagrant up
```

## Stopping the virtual machine

It's essential you use Vagrant to stop the VM rather than shutting down via the
OS or the VirtualBox controls; failure to shutdown using Vagrant may result in
file loss.

To shut down the VM using Vagrant the following command from the project root
directory:

```bash
vagrant halt
```
