---
title: Version 2.0.0 released
categories:
  - news
tags:
  - release
description: >
  Version 2.0.0 of this project has been released.
excerpt: >
  Major release with many changes, read for details...
read_time: no
date: 2018-10-15T19:18:26+01:00
modified: 2018-10-16T10:38:52+01:00
---

{% include base_path %}

## Release highlights

### Upgraded to Ubuntu Bionic Beaver

Ubuntu [Bionic Beaver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BionicBeaver/ReleaseNotes) is the
latest LTS release of Ubuntu.

The first thing you'll likely notice is the Gnome desktop has replaced Unity
as the standard Ubuntu desktop. We've also dropped the option of using the Xfce
desktop for your development environment. While you no longer have a choice of
desktops you can now
[configure the placement]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#choice-of-dock-position)
of the dock.

Apart from that you'll notice newer versions of popular packages, see the
Ubuntu Bionic Beaver
[release notes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BionicBeaver/ReleaseNotes) for details.

### Improved Java support

* Added [SDKMAN!]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#sdkman) Software Development
  Kit Manager
* Java 11 is now the default JDK (Java 8 is still available)
    * Use SDKMAN! to switch Java versions e.g.
        * `sdk use java 8`
        * `sdk use java 11`
* Added new GantSign
  [code style]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#intellij-code-style)
  for IntelliJ IDE

    Note: while the new GantSign code style is the default, we recommend you
    add the code style configuration `.idea/codeStyles/*` to version control
    for each of your projects. It's wise to copy the code style from the IDE to
    the project so it doesn't change unintentionally and all developers have the
    same configuration.

* Added GantSign
  [inspection profile]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#intellij-inspection-profile)
  for IntelliJ IDEA

    Note: while the new GantSign inspection profile is the default, we recommend
    you add the inspection profile configuration `.idea/inspectionProfiles/*` to
    version control for each of your projects. It's wise to copy the inspection
    profile from the IDE to the project so it doesn't change unintentionally and
    all developers have the same configuration. The GantSign inspection profile
    is optimized for greenfield projects, for existing projects you may want to
    use the default IntelliJ inspection profile instead.

* Added
  [LogSupport2 plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9417-log-support-2)
  for IntelliJ IDEA

### Improved Python support

* Added [Pyenv]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#pyenv-version-manager) Python
  version manager
* Added [Pipenv]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#pipenv-package-manager) Python
  package manager with Virtualenv support
* Added
  [Python plugin]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#python-plugin-for-intellij-idea)
  for IntelliJ IDEA

### Improved Kubernetes support

* Added [Minikube]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#minikube) for creating a local
  Kubernetes cluster
* Added [Kops]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#kops) for creating production
  grade Kubernates clusters
* Added [Helm]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#helm) the Kubernetes package
  manager
* Added [Kompose]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#kompose) for using Docker
  Compose files with Kubernetes

### Improved Zsh support

* Added [zsh-autosuggestions](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-autosuggestions)
  makes suggestions based on previously executed commands
* Added
  [syntax-highlighting](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting)
  syntax highlighting for shell commands
* Added [Antigen]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#antigen) package manager for
  Zsh

### Improved tab-completion support

* Ubuntu Bionic Beaver comes with newer package versions, some with improved Zsh
  support
* Added tab-completion for more commands
    * bat
    * ctop
    * fd
    * gradle
    * helm
    * httpie
    * hub
    * kompose
    * kops
    * kubeadm
    * kubectl
    * moleculew
    * npm
    * pip
    * pipenv
    * pyenv
    * sdkman
    * yarn

### Improved Git support

* Added [hub]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#hub) wrapper for Git with
  additional features for GitHub
* Added
  [Git Credential Manager for Mac and Linux]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#git-credential-manager-for-mac-and-linux)
* Added new Git aliases

    * Checkout an existing branch

        `git co` ≡ `git checkout`

    * Create a new branch

        `git cb` ≡ `git checkout -b`

    * Amend the last commit and change the commit message

        `git ca` ≡ `git commit --amend`

    * Amend the last commit without changing the commit message

        `git cane` ≡ `git commit --amend --no-edit`

    * Rebase the current branch onto `origin/develop`

        `git rod` ≡ `git rebase origin/develop`

    * Push the current branch to `origin HEAD`

        `git po` ≡ `git push origin HEAD`

    * Force push the current branch to `origin HEAD`

        `git pof` ≡ `git push origin HEAD --force`

    * Switch to the `master` branch pull changes and prune remote branches

        `git cmp` ≡ `git checkout master && git pull -p`

    * Switch to the `develop` branch pull changes and prune remote branches

        `git cdp` ≡ `git checkout develop && git pull -p`

    * Pop the most recent stash

        `git pop` ≡ `git stash pop`

    * Reformat the recent changes as Markdown release notes

        `git release-notes` ≡ `git log --color --pretty=format:'%s%Cred%d%Creset' --decorate | sed -E 's/(.*) \\((\\#[0-9]+)\\)/* \\2: \\1/' | tac -`

    * [View all Git aliases]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#git-aliases)

* Added configuration for
  [setting the Git user name and email address]({{ base_path }}/docs/configuration/#git-user-name-and-email-address)
  during provisioning

### More command line tools

* [bat]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#bat) more advanced alternative to `cat`
* [ctop]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#ctop) `top` like tool for Docker
  containers
* [fd]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#fd) intuitive alternative to `find`

### Improved credential handling

Version 1 of this development environment was configured to auto-login. The
problem with this approach was it prevented the Gnome Keyring from persisting
credentials. This meant you had to put in you Git credentials every time you
reloaded the VM. It also causes problems for apps such as Google Chrome that
expect to be able to store credentials.

Version 2 of this development environment removes the auto-login feature. You
now have to enter a password to login the development environment, but most
other credentials can be persisted between sessions. For security, you're forced
to change the password on first use.

### Improved backup & restore

The original backup mechanism (using Unison file synchronization) was prone to
failure. For version 2 we're using a
[new backup mechanism]({{ base_path }}/docs/features/#file-backup--restore-between-rebuilds)
using rsync.

### Removed software

* [Atom](https://atom.io)

    These days Visual Studio Code is as good or better for practically
    everything.

* [Molecule](https://molecule.readthedocs.io)

    We recommend using
    [Molecule Wrapper](https://github.com/gantsign/molecule-wrapper) instead of
    installing Molecule as a system package.

### Changed minimum requirements

You need to upgrade to at least [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) `2.1.0`
before you can provision a development-environment (follow the upgrade procedure
below).

## Upgrade procedure

### Preparing your existing VM for upgrade

#### Purge the download cache

While not strictly required, it's best to clean out all the old Ubuntu Xenial
packages before upgrading to free up disk space.

Bring up the development environment by running the following on the host:

```bash
vagrant up
```

From the development environment terminal run:

```bash
sudo rm -rf /var/persistent/usr/local/src/ansible/data/*
# Workaround for /bin/rm: cannot execute [Argument list too long]
for f in /var/persistent/var/cache/apt/archives/*.deb; do sudo rm -f "$f"; done
```

### Upgrade to the latest version of Vagrant

Download the latest version of Vagrant from
[https://www.vagrantup.com](https://www.vagrantup.com). Uninstall your current
version of Vagrant then install then reboot. Remove any lingering parts of the
old installation under `C:\Program Files\HashiCorp\Vagrant`. Then
reinstall Vagrant. While it should be possible to upgrade Vagrant without
uninstalling, it fails when you have the Vagrant Triggers plugin installed (it
conflicts with the native triggers feature in recent versions of Vagrant).

### Update the provisioning scripts

From the host run:

```bash
git fetch && git rebase origin/2.0.0
```

### Re-provision the development environment

From the host run:

```bash
vagrant destroy && vagrant up
```

If there are any problems follow the
[troubleshooting advice]({{ base_path }}/docs/upgrade/#troubleshooting).

## Change your password

Once provisioning is complete you need to change your password. Login using the
username `vagrant` and password `vagrant`. You'll then be prompted to change
your password.

Pick a strong password and don't reuse another password (e.g. don't use your
Windows password). This password will be used to secure access to saved
passwords in your browser, SSH key passwords and Git credentials etc.

The password needs to be at least 16 characters long and you cannot repeat the
same character more than 3 times in a row. Prefer long easy to remember phrases
over difficult to remember random passwords.

**Important:** you need to complete this procedure before you stop/reload the
VM.

## Fix SSH key permissions

The version of SSH that comes with Ubuntu Bionic will not load an SSH key if
it's readable by other users. Run the following command from the terminal in the
client VM to fix the file permissions:

```bash
chmod 'go-rwx' ~/.ssh/*
```

After this is complete logout and log back in so your key is loaded.

## Full change list

For a full list of changes view the
[release notes](https://github.com/gantsign/development-environment/releases/tag/2.0.0).
